# Portfolio_ICS4U_Assignment
A collection of my projects from ICS4U 2020.

Website link: https://hadi1723.github.io/Portfolio_ICS4U_Assignment/index.html

Interview questions:

1. What makes object oriented design integral to how you think about coding/programming/computer science?

Answer:
Object-oriented programming is one of the main concepts that I learned in this course. Although object-oriented programming is a complex concept, it has multiple benefits. One of the main benefits of object-oriented programming is the inheritance feature. Whenever an object inherits properties from another object, it inherits both the base object’s variables and methods. Thus, polymorphism would occur, which means that there would be multiple versions of the same method or variable. There are two types of polymorphism, overriding and overloading, but the only aspect that I focussed in this course is overriding. Overriding is a situation where the same method, with the same number and types of parameters, is used for multiple objects, but its output is different for each object. Another benefit of object-oriented programming is that it’s very organized as for every individual object, every aspect of the object is separated into different methods, and each of them have it's own functionality.
 
I constantly use object-oriented programming in my projects in this course. First, I use the idea of polymorphism to make coding easier for me. For example, in my Khan Academy project “Creature Colonies,” I created a draw method for my object, “Fish” (see lines 39-64). Then, I established another object, Smallfish, that inherited the information from the original object, Fish (see lines 66-69).  I used this same process to create the “Predatorfish” object (see lines 127-130). Although both derived objects use the same methods, with the same name and same number and types of parameters, their outputs are different because the values for their parameters are different from each other. This idea of object-oriented programming made me realize that there is familiarity within programming. Every object that inherited (took) attributes from the same object will function in the same way. However, if the user wants each inherited object to function differently, then he/she can modify the parameters for each inherited object. It’s similar to a tv set where every customer who bought a tv from the same tv company will get the same channels. However, based on the interests of different customers, every individual can add or delete specific channels. Also, I use objected-oriented programming to make my code organized. For example, in the Khan Academy project, “Creature comforts and critter jitters,”   the Reinders are supposed to be attracted to each other due to gravitational attraction between every two reindeer. To achieve this objective, one method is used to display the reindeer (see lines: 27-30), and another function is created to calculate the gravitational attraction (see lines: 32-47). Through this approach, my code is very organized and clear to understand, allowing any user to use the program. This aspect of object-oriented programming made me realize that coding is not so different from English. To further elaborate, English is a language used to communicate with humans, and likewise, coding is the language used to communicate with computers or with other programmers. Since they are both languages, they must be organized so that they can be readable to anybody.

5. What does it mean to have good programming practices?

Answer:
Essentially, programming practices are rules that computer scientists use to make their code efficient and readable by any user. In regards to efficiency, coding practices have many aspects. Firstly, it means using less code to achieve a task. Not all programs have to be very short, but programmers are always encouraged to use less code to complete tasks because more code reduces the efficiency of the program. The reason is that more lines of code use more memory and RAM, causing the program to run slow or crash. Another coding practice that improves efficiency is to avoid hardcoding. Hardcoding can make it time-consuming to solve errors in programs, so it's a good practice to use more variables. Another good programming practice would involve using objects and methods since they are reusable modules. It is worth noting that coding practices also involve making the code easy for any other user to understand, regardless of their experience in programming. One of the basic ways to achieve this goal is by including comments throughout the code. This will enable any user to understand the purpose of each line of code without confusion. Commenting also makes the user troubleshoot problems quickly as the location of every part of the program will become clear.  Another coding practice that improves the readability of a program is the inclusion of indents and spacing of the lines of code. Indents/spacings allow properly structured lines of code, enabling any user to understand the program well and locate specific lines.

I apply these coding practices in my projects throughout the course to make my work efficient. For example, for the project, “Shooting Star,” I needed to output fourteen images of stars, and instead of outputting every star separately, I used three for-loops to accomplish the task (see lines 32-45). Thus, I saved five lines of code (since the three loops use nine lines of code and the output for fourteen images separately uses 14 lines of code). Also, for the project, “Animal Attack,” I defined two variables that represent the x/y positions for all body parts of the bear (see lines: 2-3). If I wanted to change the horizontal position of the bear, instead of altering the x-position component for every body part of the bear, I can only alter the value for the variable “x” on line 2. I also apply these coding practices to make my work readable to any user. For example, in the “khan.html” file (the file that displays all my projects from Khan Academy) for this final project, I included comments for every significant line of code, making it easier for anybody to understand what’s occurring during each stage of the program and locating relevant lines of code.  Also, for the file “challenge.html” for this project, I added indents and spacing throughout the entire file, and this made it easy for me to fix errors involving this file since I could locate every part of the code easily.


6. Summarize your experience with khan academy.

Answer:
Khan Academy was a decent tool for my education. It's a website where anybody can learn about coding by watching videos, reading articles, completing small tasks, taking quizzes and tests, and completing big projects. Through Khan Academy’s  teaching approach, people can learn about fundamental and advanced coding concepts, and consequently, they can apply their knowledge in unique projects, even though the lessons in some modules were not good as compared to the lessons on Free Code Camp.
The main benefit from Khan Academy was that I gained extensive knowledge about coding. I learned many concepts in multiple languages such as HTML and JavaScript. Two modules that were most beneficial to me were the "Making Webpages Interactive with jQuery" module and the "Natural Simulations" module. In this "Making Webpages Interactive with jQuery" module, I learned the importance of multiple programming languages in the development of any application. More specifically, I learned that jQuery, the world’s most popular JavaScript library, can be used along with HTML to create interactive websites. For example, I can use jQuery and HTML to make slides, buttons, and scene changes in my webpages. I felt that the projects for this module were challenging enough that I was able to grasp a solid understanding of the content. I then applied this knowledge in my works, including this project. For example, on the file "extra.html," I used my new understanding to develop a mini slideshow that explained my work for the "Algorithm Exploration" assignment. Also,  in the "Natural Simulations" module, I learned that JavaScript is useful in modelling real-life actions or behaviour. More specifically, I learned how JavaScript incorporates common concepts in Physics such as vectors, forces, kinematics (velocity and acceleration), the behaviour of objects, and more. I felt that the mix of detailed articles and videos helped me to understand these concepts before I attempted the projects. Thus, I applied my understanding in modelling the motion of objects and simulating events that would occur in real life, like a fish reaction to predators (as evident in the project "Creature Colonies"). Although I learned a lot from Khan Academy, the lessons for some of its modules were not as good as compared to the lessons of Free Code Camp. For example, I feel like the lessons on the module "Basic HTML and HTML5" (on Free Code Camp) were better as  compared to the lessons on the module "Making Webpages" (on Khan Academy). While the "Basic HTML and HTML5" module was a review from the "Making Webpages" module, I felt that I experienced a better learning experience on Free Code Camp than on Khan Academy. My reason is that the lessons on Free Code Camp were short and concise enough that I can still gain a high-quality understanding. Another benefit of this module is that I could apply the lessons to more advanced projects, which I would most likely complete outside this course. For example, the Free Code Camp project “Survey Form” is advanced (through the addition of input elements) and is something I could be asked to complete outside of class and not Khan Academy projects, such as “Event Invite.”




